now as the truth holds un agencies are
scaling up Aid deliveries to Gaza some
450 tracks carrying supplies such as
fuel water and Medicine have entered the
besieged territory in the last couple of
days they are the largest humanitarian
convoys since the start of the conflict
and include the delivery of ambulances
to help with evacuations from alifa
hospital in Northern Gaza many whove
been displaced by Israel's military
operation are using the rest fite in
fighting to search their bombed out
homes for belongings and the bodies of
loved
ones free from the threat of air strikes
Abdul aiz alar has returned to the site
where his home once stood in southern
Gaza he searches through the rubble
looking for anything which could keep
his family warm in the weeks and months
ahead we want to take advantage of the
truce we've spent the past 43 days in
shelters where there were no services
and we were exposed to rain and cold it
was extremely cold our house is
destroyed but we want to find some of
our stuff to be able to keep ourselves
and our kids
warm with the truce now in effect Aid
agencies are scaling up the delivery of
assistance the UN says some 200 trucks
the biggest humanitarian Convoy in more
than a month crossed into Gaza from the
Rafa border crossing with Egypt on
Friday it included almost 130,000 L of
fuel many Gins lined up for hours near
the border crossing waiting to fill
their empty
canisters with the skies above the
besieged territory free from Israeli
warplanes for the first time in 7 weeks
others are traveling north to check on
their homes the relatives they left
behind and in some cases to bury the
dead we hope the agreement between
Israel and Hamas now in force will bring
respite to the people of Gaza and Israel
and some relief to the hostages and
detainees who will be released and to
their families we hope it allows
grieving families to honor their dead
and bury them with
dignity and we hope that this
humanitarian pause leads to a longer
term humanitarian ceasefire for the
benefit of the people of Gaza Israel and
Beyond but Israeli war planes have
already dropped leaflets warning gazin
not to leave the South saying that the
war is not over and that it's very
dangerous to return to the north the
focus of its military campaign there is
a possibility the pause could be
extended if the two sides agree to
another exchange for now Israeli
soldiers remain St along the border with
Gaza waiting to receive
orders James Elder is a spokesman for
Unicef the United Nation's International
children's emergency fund he's in
southern Gaza and told us about the
situation for children
there yeah hi look it's Gastly it is
exactly that it is a graveyard I I said
that based on all the reports and
everything we'd heard from colleagues on
the ground a couple of weeks ago and now
that I'm here I can't actually believe
it's worse than I imagined and as you
hear from those words I imagined the
worst I've been at a hospital today
again the wounds of War I see in
children are things I haven't really
seen at least not not the sheer number
of children a bus load coming down from
the north children who hadn't seen
medical care for three or four days the
just smell of Rotting Flesh on that
children with horrendous burn marks with
with with wounds of War mortar wounds
this is consistent this is in a hospital
of course tens of thousands of people
spread across this area outside looking
for water looking for food and this is
as you rightly said in your report this
is the respite this is meant to be a
good day because we are getting Aid in
there aren't bombs Landing but still for
people who've endur this for seven weeks
it remains hellish and you can see you
can see the fear you can see the trauma
written all over their faces journalist
ham baloa was in Gaza until recently he
joins us now from the Jordanian cap
Capital am man hello ham we've seen
images of Aid tracks entering Gaza
including fuel tracks what more can you
tell
us yes um in um the third day in a row
that uh eight trucks are coming into
Gaza um uh 200 trucks expected to enter
today as the previous days we um Gaza
received um a bit less than um 100 200
trucks in the first day and the second
day uh yesterday but today is like
expected more trucks to come in
including um Fuel and and cooking gas
it's in a bad need in in Gaza Hamas IIA
complained that Israel was not allowing
Aid to reach Northern Gaza has the
situation
changed well it's not clear yet I mean
yesterday Hamas said that the delivery
to the to the North was U wasn't as
agreed upon in in the ceasefire
agreement um according to the ricent in
in Gaza they said um some trucks were
delivered to the north areas seems like
some areas are blocked so they couldn't
reach um today they are expecting and it
will be more clear um where the trucks
will go and what items will be uh
delivered so there's continuous talk
about possibly increasing the 4-day
truce or extending the 4-day truce
between Hamas and Israel what will that
mean to the lives of people in
Gaza this is badly needed everybody I
talk to um on social media everywhere
gazans are looking for extension or even
like for a complete cease fire they they
they experience long time of of of
suffer U many of them they lost their
houses or uh L of the family members or
their children so they want to bury them
they want to go back for their
businesses uh it's very important for
the Lea of Gaza that the war to be over
or at least to be extended in case that
um um there is extension that means will
um they will get more Aid and more more
fuel um the problem is that with the
items that coming through ra is limited
it's not all items that used to come to
Gaza mainly water um some food and and
medical
supplies right journalist hm Bala in am
man thank
you